---
layout: cycling
title: 2012
year: 2012
distance: 2059
height: 7574
footer: Franky Braem - Zumuta!
hero: ../2012.jpg
---

It al started in 2012.

---

In 2012, my colleagues at work planned to participate in [Climbing For Life](https://www.climbingforlife.be/).
What happens when you are the only one on the office island that doesn't cycle?
Well, they kept nagging and when Bart said "When Franky joins, I'll join too" I finally gave in. So 
the goal was set: to conquer the <i class="fas fa-mountain"></i> 
Galibier by bike on September 1, 2012.

<i class="fas fa-futbol"></i> I had played soccer for years, but had to stop a few years ago due to several 
knee surgeries. So there was work to improve the physical condition.
It was time to buy a bike: A Cube Nature Pro <i class="fas fa-bicycle"></i>.

On April 16, I rode my first training ride. With 1800km in the legs we traveled
to Valloire. Despite the bad weather we decided to do the full climb: Télégraph and Galibier.
On September 1 in the early morning we started the climb in Saint-Michel-De-Maurienne.
After the hairpin bend of Plan Lachat, the rain turned into melting snow <i class="fas fa-snowflake text-blue-500" />. The journey 
became heavier and heavier and I regularly had to get off the bike to relax.
Due to the snow, safety was no longer guaranteed and we had to stop the climb 1 km 
from the top.

Despite the tough conditions I started to fall in love with cycling...
<i class="fa fa-heart text-red-500 ml-2" />

### Achievements:
+ Télégraph + Galibier <i class="fas fa-mountain" /> 2642m &bull; 5.5% &bull; 34.8 km &bull; [Profile](https://climbfinder.com/en/climbs/col-du-galibier)

In {{ $frontmatter.year }} the odometer <i class="fas fa-tachometer-alt" /> stopped at {{ $frontmatter.distance }} km.
The altimeter <i class="fas fa-arrow-right -rotate-45" /> reached {{ $frontmatter.height }} m.

> [Climbing For Life](https://www.climbingforlife.be/) is a Belgian event that combines
> cycling, running or walking with fundraising for charity.
