---
layout: cycling
title: 2013
year: 2013
distance: 4067
height: 15034
footer: Franky Braem - Zumuta!
hero: ../2013.jpg
---

The story continued in 2013.

---

The uphill cycling was so much fun (or was it the afterparties
<i class="fas fa-beer text-yellow-500" /> ?) that we decided to participate in 
two events this year. In june, Passo dello Stelvio was organized for the first
time. And because the bad weather conditions prevented us from reaching the top 
of the Galibier, we decided to participate in Climbing For Life for the second 
time. 

On June 13, we arrived in Bormio, a beautiful Italian town wedged between the peaks of the Alps.
The next day a tour was planned: From Bormio towards Mortirolo and then defy the 
Gavia via Ponte Di Legno to return to Bormio. Despite the fact that I had started with a lot of good courage, 
it soon became clear to me that this trip was far too ambitious. The heart rate went above 180 beats
and 2 km before the top I thought about giving up. Had Peter not been there to encourage me to start the last 
kilometers anyway, I would have returned there. At the top we decided to turn back and ignore the Gavia.
And that seemed the right decision when we heard the stories of some cyclists who had completed the tour.
Gathered the courage the next day, I climbed, together with around 2000 cyclists the Stelvio. What a beautiful climb!

The Mortirolo had taught me a lesson: I have to cycle more to get the general
fitness up and the pounds down. So instead of using the car to commute to work,
I also started to use the bicycle as a mode of transportation.
Sporadic in the beginning, but gradually it became more and more.
Nowadays weather permitting, I cycle to work at least once a week.
And I found a team to take a ride with every Sunday morning.

End august we were back at the party <i class="fas fa-glass-cheers text-red-700" />, I mean, Climbing For Life. This time we
were lucky with the weather. Under a radiant sun <i class="fas fa-sun text-yellow-300" /> we rode up the Galibier without
dismounting.

### Achievements:

+ Mortirolo (Grosio) <i class="fas fa-mountain" /> 1875m &bull; 8.4% &bull; 13.7 km &bull; [Profile](https://climbfinder.com/en/climbs/mortirolo-tiolo) 
+ Passo dello Stelvio (Bormio) <i class="fas fa-mountain" /> 2757m &bull; 7.4% &bull; 20.8 km &bull; [Profile](https://climbfinder.com/en/climbs/passo-dello-stelvio-bormio)
+ Valmenier <i class="fas fa-mountain" /> 1889m &bull; 6.8% &bull; 17 km &bull; [Profile](https://climbfinder.com/en/climbs/valmeinier-1800-saint-michel-de-maurienne)
+ Télégraph + Galibier <i class="fas fa-mountain" /> 2642m &bull; 5.5% &bull; 34.8 km &bull; [Profile](https://climbfinder.com/en/climbs/col-du-galibier)

In 2013, I rode my first +100 km tour.

In {{ $frontmatter.year }} the odometer <i class="fas fa-tachometer-alt" /> stopped at {{ $frontmatter.distance }} km.
The altimeter <i class="fas fa-arrow-right -rotate-45" /> reached {{ $frontmatter.height }} m.

> It really is all about TITS (**T**ime **I**n **T**he **S**addle)
